>> Mathew DesLauriers: So, the first thing
I want to do is make the background not
black cuz black background, I don't know,
I want it to be a bit brighter.
So, I'm gonna use white, or
you can use maybe an HSL value,
which stands for hue saturation lightness.
You can set it to zero, and then maybe
something very bright for the lightness.
So 0 hue, 0 saturation,
something bright for
the lightness and that's just gonna
give us a bit of an off-white color.
And then what we're gonna wanna do is
let's say we get rid of this lighting
stuff.
So these two chunks of code, we have
the ambient light and the point light.
Let's come back to those later, but
let's just delete those for now, and
you'll notice all of a sudden that
we end up with a black rectangle.
And that's like I was saying earlier
when you turn the lights off,
you don't have any lighting in the scene,
and so your mesh just becomes black.
But what we can do to fix that
is we can change this material.
So, right now we're using
a mesh standard material.
That means it's trying to take
the lighting from the scene, but
there is none.
So we're gonna use a mesh
basic material and
we're gonna change color
to something else.
So that's pretty standard stuff so far I'm
just gonna open my console just so I can
see any error messages in case they come
up, and you'll notice maybe a warning.
This mesh basic material, roughness
is not a property of this material.
That's because we're passing value
roughness but mesh basic material,
it doesn't need these things.
So we can just delete those two things.
Just end up with the color red.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Okay, so
there's our red cube, and the next thing
I wanna do is I want us to
get rid of our controls.
So maybe we'll come back to doing
controls later but for now,
I wanna do an animation that's looping and
that's seamless and it's going on
its own rather than us having to move
it around in order to see it changing.
So I'm gonna just delete
a couple of lines.
There's this one, this is the one
where we set up the controller.
We don't need that anymore and
then we just have to make sure that
the other two places that it controls
are referenced from are also removed.
So there it is in the render function.
We're removing it and
then there it is in the unload function
and we're removing that as well.
So there's three places in total,
and if that works,
if that works then you should have
the image but you can't control it, and
this is just gonna set us up a bit more
for doing a video loop or a seamless GIF,
rather than having to always
interact with the scene.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And so the next
thing we're gonna do is we're gonna try
and get back to some of this
style that I was showing here.
And remember how I was saying we had
the difference between a prospective and
orthographic?
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna try
and learn about how do we do isometric or
orthographic in this case perspective so
it looks a bit more
like this because we want it be a bit more
artsy, a bit more like monument valley.
So I go back to my code and
what I'm gonna do here is change
perspective camera to be orthographic
camera and we don't need to pass any
arguments yet and it looks like that.
And we're gonna have a couple of errors or
empty scenes for
a few attempts here, so don't worry.
These two lines after that,
let's just remove those,
cuz those are useful for
the perspective, but
we're gonna them a little differently for
isometric or the graphic camera.
So, it just looks like that so far.
And then when we come down
to the resize function,
what we have to do is we have to say okay
every time there is a scene resizes,
we need to set up our camera
to this new scene size and
this part is really just
a bit of a memory game, and
it's such a memory game that I've
actually put it in the cheat sheet.
So if you go to your repo,
if you go to the cheat sheet and
you scroll almost all the way down
you'll see isometric 3GS camera.
And this is something that
I just copy-paste a lot, so
don't feel guilty if
you're copy-pasting it.
I would literally suggest copy pasting
it now, just because it will get
us there a bit quicker and
we can chat about what it's doing.
Usually I don't copy paste stuff,
but in this case,
it's a bit of boilerplate and
sometimes I forget it.
So don't feel too guilty
if you're copy pasting.
So what it's doing it's
just setting the attributes
of our camera using some of the code.
So we're gonna have to just
clean this code up a little bit
because I just copied and pasted it and
I wanna just clean it up a bit.
So the first thing you'll notice is we
have these two lines at the bottom.
You only need one of them, so
I'm just gonna remove that one.
Just make sure you have one.
It doesn't really matter.
The other small issue is that
in our props here we're using something
a little different than width height.
We're using view port width and
view port height.
So width height is gonna air us out so
I'm just gonna change that to be view port
width divided by view port height, and
that's just kind of an internal part
of the 3GS template that it's using view
port width instead of width and height.
And the difference in our case
is kind of nothing at all, but
if you have maybe if you're using
physical units or something like that,
the viewport might not match
exactly the width of your image.
But in our case it's not
really a big difference.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So if we had
copied that correctly And we save,
we should already end up with what is
an orthographic or asymmetric perspective.
So I don't know.
Maybe you guys managed to get that far.
And then one thing that I don't wanna
do here is I don't wanna just rotate
the mesh.
We'll come back to doing
some animation in a second.
So I'm just gonna delete that line.
And now we have a very
boring looking output, but
let's make it a bit more interesting.
So, instead of just
creating a single mesh,
let's create many meshes, and so
we're gonna wrap this in a FOR
loop, so I just indented it,
I'm just gonna do like ten for now.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
they're all in the same position so
they're all overlapping each other so
it doesn't look any different yet.
So I'm just gonna do this,
I'm gonna set the position.
For now, let's just it's just
do you know what we'll do,
is because what we want to do is we
want to set a random position for
each of these cubes because
we have 10 cubes now.
And so, I mean if you set this position to
a different position you're going to start
to see it moving around the screen.
And we want to use a random value.
So you can do math.random, or what
we're actually going to end up doing is
bringing in the random number
generator that we had before.
We'll do that in a second.
And if you're this far you're
probably gonna get this blob of red.
That's because the cubes are really big
and we need to scale them down a bit.
So what we're gonna do is mesh.scale and
then multiplyScalar.
This is a function that will
multiply the x, y, and z,
all by the same number
value that you give it.
You can use some number value there.
While you're doing that,
I just want to very quickly try and
explain 3D coordinates
in a very simple way.
This is something that took me a really
long time to wrap my head around, so
don't feel too worried if you're
still trying to pick it up.
But basically when we work in 2-D we have
the top left of the screen which is 00 and
the bottom right of the screen is
the width and the height of the screen.
But in 3-D we don't have those
pixel coordinates anymore.
There's no such thing as top left or
bottom right of the screen,
the only thing we have is this virtual
world with these arbitrary coordinates.
You might be wondering how do I move
this exactly three pixels to the right?
You can't just move this cube
three pixels to the right because
pixels don't exist in this.
The thing that we're working with,
this arbitrary coordinate space, and so
the best way to think about it is to think
of it in terms of real world units like
meters or inches or something like that,
so you would specify a coordinate
space that you want to deal with it.
So, let's say we want everything in
our virtual world to be in meters, and
then you specify an origin and
everything is relative to that origin.
So if I was to say I'm standing at
the center of the world, the center of
the world is always 000, and then every
object that you place in your world
is gonna be relative to where you're
standing, where that origin is.
So if I was to place an object to the
right of me, maybe we might say that it's
x along the x axis by one unit,
maybe this is maybe not one full meter.
But imagine it's one meter, it's the same
with going backwards or forwards,
if I was to step forwards that might
be along the zed axis by one meter.
And if I was to be in the air maybe
it would be one meter in the air.
So it's a really hard thing to
sort of wrap your mind around and
it took me a long time but
I just tried to think of it in terms
of just real world positioning.
Like if I was to place this 3D mouse
somewhere on the table and move it
this way that might be one unit along
the x or along the y or along the zed.
And actually there's a little
trick that I do all the time, and
you guys can try and do it as well to hold
your fingers out like this like a gun
just using your thumb and
your index finger on your right hand.
And you stick it out like
this just in front of you and
then you stick out your middle finger and
you make your little finger perpendicular
to your index finger and this
becomes the three axis X, Y, Z that we're
actually gonna be dealing with in 3D.
And you just have to
remember these three things.
You have to remember that your
thumb is the Y axis, and so your
thumb is going up and down just following
the line of your thumb going up and down.
So that's y, so if we actually were
to change, where this is x, y, z,
if we were gonna change this numbers, the
y coordinate, you'll see if I make this 2,
or 3, is going up and down because
our thumb is going up and down.
And then for the other finger,
let's say our index finger is zed.
So Zed in this case is gonna
be forward and backwards.
So if we were to change the zed,
which is this third coordinate,
we'll start to see it's going
depending on where our camera is
it's gonna maybe appear to go forwards or
backwards.
But this is this weird concept that we
have to just try and deal with for now.
And if you're ever stuck,
just think of this where your thumb is y,
your index finger is z, and
your middle finger is x.
So you might wanna write that
down just to remember thumb is y,
middle finger is x, index finger is zed,
but it's a really weird thing to try and
wrap your head around, and
even more difficult to try and explain.
Especially because when I started
this kind of creative coding
I wasn't very familiar with
any of these math concepts.
And this is a sort of misconception I
think is that a lot of people think that
to be a programmer, to be a creative coder
you have to know a lot about math, and
I don't know a lot about math, and I have
had to learn it basically myself, but
that's basically just to say that
it's not as scary as it appears.
And definitely with practice and
just trying to memorize things, and
use the ways of memorizing just like the
index finger, you can start to pick it up.
So, yeah, just to say you don't need to be
a math wizard to do this kind of stuff.
Okay, going back to our code.
I was saying I wanted to position
things randomly in this xyz space.
So what I'm going to do
is I'm going to require
our utility that is the random utility and
we have to do canvassketchutil/random.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So
it just looks like that.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And then here in
our positioning for each of these x, y and
zed coordinates I'm gonna do random.value,
so I'm gonna do this again,
random.range which means I wanna a random
number between a minimum and maximum.
So the minimum is gonna be -1.
We'll just use -1 to 1 for now.
And then the same,
random.range -1 to 1 and
the same here, random.range -1 to 1.
So what you should end up with is this,
these three coordinates.
Each of them is going to
be random between -1 and 1,
and our cubes are gonna start
to appear all over the place.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
one thing I'm gonna do just so
we can visualize this a bit better.
If we scroll down to our orthographic
stuff that we copy-pasted I'm
gonna increase the zoom to
a larger number like 2 or 1.5.
That's gonna just zoom
everything out a little bit so
we can start to see this
scene a bit better.
Does anyone remember what I was
saying earlier about geometries and
how we shouldn't be using
this geometry many times?
Well this is one thing where we should
change this because right now I´m creating
ten box geometries and so we should
actually just use this BoxGeometry once
outside of our loop, and
then reuse that for each mesh.
And this is gonna look no different, it's
just gonna produce a more efficient code,
and it's really important when you
start to do things like animation or
interactivity, especially if you're trying
to give somebody a mobile experience
with this code.